---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Locutus"
comments: true
categories: [ future, js, golang, python, ruby, php, c ]
---

Already spoiled a little in [Breaking Backwards Compatibility](/blog/2016/04/20/breaking-bc/), 
today I'm launching a big iteration of our project. It includes 
[many](https://github.com/kvz/locutus/pull/290)
[changes](https://github.com/kvz/locutus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v200) 
under which a new name: Locutus.

Locutus will have the same main goal as always: 

> Offer the community a platform to collaborate on JavaScript counterparts 
to functions from other languages. For fun and educational purposes.

There are big differences in how Locutus will go about that though. Locutus will focus on:

- Porting just the standard libraries (and avoid: language features, environment, data-types, configuration)
- Expanding to other languages, such as C, Go, Python, Ruby (instead of just PHP)
- The educational aspect and the intellectual challenge (vs: production bundles)
- Individual functions (vs: trying to provide an exhaustive ecosystem that could be used to run entire Go scripts in JavaScript)
- Using npm as the main distribution platform, so you can `var strings = require('golang/strings')` (vs: Git, copy-paste, browser). If the browser is your target platform, you could use [Browserify](http://browserify.org/), [rollup.js](http://rollupjs.org/), or [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/).
- Targeting Node.js as the main platform when it comes to I/O. Again, if the browser is your target, in many cases I/O does not make sense, and where it does, there's e.g. https://github.com/substack/brfs

While still a work in progress, I've already changed or deprecated many functions that do not adhere to this new vision. If you spot a function that I missed, please let me know!

I feel these are the changes I needed to re-spark my motivation for leading this project. For a long time I've struggled with the project in its old form, and the little motivation I did have for maintenance was mostly guilt-driven, instead of by curiosity and excitement.

Knowing I fell short, I tried to find new leadership, but there were no candidates. I considered declaring `[UNMAINTAINED]`, effectively shutting the project down, but there were so many people still enjoying it, and I felt too great a deal of duty and responsibility towards past contributors. 

There are several reasons why I believe my intrinsic motivation had fled:

- The things that were fun to port, had been ported
- [Misuse](https://github.com/kvz/locutus/issues/75) of the project
- I started a new company and protocol which took much time by itself, but also meant writing solely in other programming languages (you'll find no bitterness here, but it did mean I had less time to care about PHP oriented projects)
- Being a visible project in the broader development community with people coming from many different programming languages, I found myself at the focal point of PHP hate was fashionable for a while.   
- I've changed my stance on many things going from age 23 to 32. For instance, our project should not be used as a VM. I had this goal for some time, but it drove me to me write hacks that have likely secured me a special place in hell - while we would never be able to get it to work well, anyway. Projects like [GopherJS](https://github.com/gopherjs/gopherjs) or [Emscripten](http://kripken.github.io/emscripten-site/) offer better routes to that end.

I understand this can feel like a very radical shift, especially when there's mention of deprecating functions. Perhaps functions that you wrote with blood sweat and tears. That's why I want to voice a word of appreciation to all contributors, for the hard work that went into shaping this project. Rewriting a language in another language is no small task. People tend to forget that in order to create this project, we had to write a lot of JavaScript. In trying to port the entire language instead of limiting ourselves to more sensible bits, we may have ventured into some darker areas of engineering. But I for one am very proud that we have built a welcoming friendly community where over the coarse of 9(!) years, over hundreds of developers have come together to learn JavaScript and help others learn it. I will accept both victory and defeat.

As a contributor of this project, I hope you'll come with me on this new adventure, where standard libraries full of functions are just [screaming to be ported](https://golang.org/pkg/strings/). This time we'll be a little bit older. A little bit wiser, more mindful of the darker areas, a bit more prudent. But we'll have just as much fun, I promise : )

To give us a head-start, I have cleaned up the codebase already. Meaning

- We can write any function in ES6 now
- All functions adhere to the [JavaScript Standard Style](http://standardjs.com/) and have a max line length of 100
- All functions can be used via npm
- There are example functions in four new languages available
- We can use `$global` that works in both Browsers and Node.js
- JSON, base64, sha1, md5 functions use native ones if available
- Dependencies are handled via `require` now
- Refactored the utility class
- Removed `_workbench` and `_experimental` folders. They are available for reference in 1.3.2 but making them harder to find for newcomers should help avoid a lot of complaints and confusion
- Either deprecate or document all functions using `eval` or `new Function` and other bad practices

For all those who can forgive me, you can try Locutus right now if you want:

```bash
$ npm install --save --save-exact locutus
$ vim index.js
```

```javascript
var strings = require('locutus/golang/strings')
console.log(strings.Contains('Locutus', 'us'))
```

```bash
$ node index.js
true
```

If you want to help Locutus, there are a few ideas in our 
[Backlog](https://github.com/kvz/locutus/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#Backlog)
that you could work on. It would be fun to see your ports get added!

[To the GitHubs](https://github.com/kvz/locutus)!

[Kevin](http://twitter.com/kvz)
